0
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Tim WuMr. Wu is the author of “The Attention Merchants: The Epic Struggle to Get Inside Our Heads.”After years of collecting way too much data, Facebook has finally been caught in the facilitation of one privacy debacle too many. When Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, testifies before Congress, which he plans to do this month, lawmakers will no doubt ask how Facebook might restore the public’s trust and whether it might accept some measure of regulation. Yet in the big picture, these are the wrong questions to be asking.The right question: What comes after Facebook? Yes, we have come to depend on social networks, but instead of accepting an inherently flawed Facebook monopoly, what we most need now is a new generation of social media platforms that are fundamentally different in their incentives and dedication to protecting user data. Barring a total overhaul of leadership and business model, Facebook will never be that platform.Every business has its founding DNA. Real corporate change is rare, especially when the same leaders remain in charge. In Facebook’s case, we are not speaking of a few missteps here and there, the misbehavior of a few aberrant employees. The problems are central and structural, the predicted consequences of its business model. From the day it first sought revenue, Facebook prioritized growth over any other possible goal, maximizing the harvest of data and human attention. Its promises to investors have demanded an ever-improving ability to spy on and manipulate large populations of people. Facebook, at its core, is a surveillance machine, and to expect that to change is misplaced optimism.What the journalist Walter Lippmann said in 1959 of “free” TV is also true of “free” social media: It is ultimately “the creature, the servant and indeed the prostitute of merchandizing.” But social media itself isn’t going away. It has worked its way into our lives and has come to help satistify the basic human need to connect and catch up. Facebook, in fact, claims lofty goals, saying it seeks to “bring us closer together” and “build a global community.” Those are indeed noble purposes that social media can serve. But if they were Facebook’s true goals, we would not be here.The ideal competitor and successor to Facebook would be a platform that actually puts such goals first. To do so, however, it cannot be just another data-hoarder, like Google Plus. If we have learned anything over the last decade, it is that advertising and data-collection models are incompatible with a trustworthy social media network. The conflicts are too formidable, the pressure to amass data and promise everything to advertisers is too strong for even the well-intentioned to resist.So what stands in the way of building a genuine alternative? It isn’t the technology. A good Facebook competitor needs merely to build a platform that links you with friends and allows posting of thoughts, pictures and comments. No, the real challenge is gaining a critical mass of users. Facebook, with its 2.2 billion users, will not disappear, and it has a track record of buying or diminishing its rivals (see Instagram and Foursquare). But as Lyft is proving by stealing market share from Uber, and as Snapchat proved by taking taking younger audiences from Facebook, “network effects” are not destiny. Now is the time for a new generation of Facebook competitors that challenge the mother ship.One set of Facebook alternatives might be provided by firms that are credibly privacy-protective, for which users would pay a small fee (perhaps 99 cents a month). In an age of “free” social media, paying might sound implausible — but keep in mind that payment better aligns the incentives of the platform with those of its users. The payment and social network might be bundled with other products such as the iPhone or the Mozilla or Brave browser.Another “alt-Facebook” could be a nonprofit that uses that status to signal its dedication to better practices, much as nonprofit hospitals and universities do. Wikipedia is a nonprofit, and it manages nearly as much traffic as Facebook, on a much smaller budget. An “alt-Facebook” could be started by Wikimedia, or by former Facebook employees, many of whom have congregated at the Center for Humane Technology, a nonprofit for those looking to change Silicon Valley’s culture. It could even be funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which was created in reaction to the failures of commercial television and whose mission includes ensuring access to “telecommunications services that are commercial free and free of charge.”When a company fails, as Facebook has, it is natural for the government to demand that it fix itself or face regulation. But competition can also create pressure to do better. If today’s privacy scandals lead us merely to install Facebook as a regulated monopolist, insulated from competition, we will have failed completely. The world does not need an established church of social media.Tim Wu is a law professor at Columbia, the author of “The Attention Merchants: The Epic Struggle to Get Inside Our Heads” and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS"
"AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 5, 2018, 12:13 P.M. E.D.T.
SYDNEY —  Australia on Thursday said it had begun an investigation to decide whether social media giant Facebook Inc breached its privacy laws, after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorization.Personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said on Wednesday, exceeding a media estimate of more than 50 million.In a statement, Australia's privacy commissioner, Angelene Falk, said her office would ""confer with regulatory authorities internationally"", given the global nature of the matter.A Facebook spokeswoman in Australia said the company would be ""fully responsive"" to the investigation and had recently updated some privacy settings.AdvertisementFacebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, told reporters during a conference call that he accepted blame for the data leak.AdvertisementZuckerberg is due to testify about the matter next week during two U.S. congressional hearings, and the data breach has drawn criticism from lawmakers and regulators around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook's estimate of affected users.It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Australia's investigation follows comments by New Zealand's privacy commissioner last week that Facebook had broken laws in that country, a charge the company called disappointing.Australia's competition regulator is already investigating whether Facebook and Alphabet Inc's Google had disrupted the news media to the detriment of publishers and consumers.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry and Clarence Fernandez)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy THE NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 23, 2018
British investigators on Friday night searched the London offices of Cambridge Analytica, the data-analytics company that harvested data from 50 million Facebook users to develop psychological profiles on behalf of political campaigns, including that of President Trump.About 20 investigators from Britain’s data watchdog, the Information Commissioner’s Office, descended on the company’s offices on New Oxford Street after obtaining a search warrant from the High Court.“We are pleased with the decision of the judge, and the warrant is now being executed,” the office of the information commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said in a statement. “This is just one part of a larger investigation into the use of personal data and analytics for political purposes. As you will expect, we will now need to collect, assess and consider the evidence before coming to any conclusions.”Last Saturday, the same day The New York Times and The Observer of London published a detailed look at the company’s use of Facebook data, Ms. Denham’s office announced an investigation into “the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used.”AdvertisementThe office said the inquiry would “consider how political parties and campaigns, data analytics companies and social media platforms in the U.K. are using and analyzing people’s personal information to micro target voters.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The police search carried out on Friday night had been expected. The revelations about the company’s data use have set off a storm on both sides of the Atlantic.AdvertisementEuropean and American lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how the British consulting firm gained access to the Facebook data in 2014, and why Facebook failed to inform its users. The company’s stock has taken a hit, and some consumers have stopped using Facebook.The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said on Wednesday that his company mishandled data and promised to do better.The Information Commissioner’s Office has described its investigation as “complex and far-reaching” and said that it would pursue criminal or civil enforcement vigorously.A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Investigators Raid Office  Of Data Firm In London.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 5, 2018, 1:40 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):6:30 p.m.Britain's Information Commissioner says some 30 organizations — including Facebook — are being investigated to see how social media platforms were used in political campaigns.Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham's statement Thursday comes a day after Facebook announced that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought. In all, Facebook says as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed.Denham says her office is ""conducting a broader investigation into how social media platforms were used in political campaigning."" She says the investigation could result in enforcement action.She says ""Facebook has been co-operating with us and, while I am pleased with the changes they are making, it is too early to say whether they are sufficient under the law.""Advertisement___9:30 p.m. (Sydney time)The European Union is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws when millions of people had their data accessed through a leak.AdvertisementEU spokesman Christian Wigand said on Thursday that the bloc's justice chief Vera Jourova would have ""high-level contacts in the coming days"" with Facebook officials and also reach out to data protection officials, including the British authority which is leading the European investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed.""You can be sure that we will continue to follow these investigations by the relevant authorities closely,"" Wigand said.___4:30 p.m. (Sydney time)Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country's privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, without their authorization.Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said Thursday that the Privacy Act requires all organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. Customers must also be adequately notified about the collection and handling of personal information.Each breach of the Privacy Act can involve a 420,000 Australian dollar fine ($323,000). The privacy commissioner can also seek a court injunction and require offenders to pledge, under threat of further court action, to prevent further breaches.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 11:24 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The CEO of Facebook is defending its advertising-supported business model.Mark Zuckerberg's defense comes after Apple CEO Tim Cook said his company wouldn't be in Facebook's situation because Apple doesn't sell ads based on customer data the way Facebook does. Zuckerberg responded Monday that an advertising-supported business model is the only way that the service can survive because not everyone would be able to pay for Facebook if it charged a fee.He says the idea that Facebook doesn't care about its customers is ""extremely glib.""Facebook is facing scrutiny over its data collection following allegations that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica obtained data on tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Zuckerberg spoke with Vox , while Cook talked with Recode last week.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"Advertisement
Best of Late Night By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
MARCH 20, 2018
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Cambridge Analytica, the Trump-linked data firm, is in hot water after a hidden camera captured Alexander Nix, its chief executive, suggesting ways to entrap political rivals through bribery and seduction. Stephen Colbert was happy to see it.“Smile, Alexander Nix, you’re on candid corruption!” — STEPHEN COLBERTThe New York Times reported over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica had gained access to the private information of over 50 million Facebook users, none of whom had been notified.“Really? The one time I actually would have wanted a Facebook alert. Perhaps that could have replaced one of the four messages I get a day about my ex-roommate’s college girlfriend’s one-woman show. I’m a maybe, Sarah. That means no!” — STEPHEN COLBERTTrevor Noah responded to reports that President Trump may be thinking of firing the special counsel Robert Mueller.“He’s definitely considering it. You know how they say men think about sex every eight seconds? That’s what Trump does with firing people. Yeah, when Trump meets a new person, that’s what he fantasizes about. He’s like, ‘Oh, man, it would be so awesome to fire that lady. I would fire her so hard. Oh my God, I want to fire her right now.’” — TREVOR NOAHAdvertisementVladimir Putin, a favorite heel of all the late-night humorists, won re-election as Russia’s president on Sunday. With the recent poisoning of a former Russian spy fresh in their minds, the hosts cried foul.“Yesterday, Vladimir Putin won re-election with 76 percent of the vote. So congratulations to President Putin for making up a realistic-sounding number.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“This is Putin’s highest margin of victory yet — it’s really impressive. Though I’m starting to think he might have had help from the Russians.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“Congratulations to Trump’s B.F.F., Vladimir Putin, who was elected yesterday to his fourth term as president of Russia. He won in a landslide. His opponents, coincidentally, died in a landslide. All of them.” — JIMMY KIMMEL“According to a new study, pandas have a natural ability to neutralize cyanide poison. So we finally found someone to run against Putin in 2024!” — SETH MEYERS“There you have it, Vladimir Putin won, and now he can focus on his next election: ours.” — JIMMY KIMMELAdvertisement“Actress Cynthia Nixon today announced her bid to run for New York governor, and she debuted her campaign slogan, ‘Nixon 2018: No Relation.’” — SETH MEYERS“A new poll has found that a majority of Americans believe the government is spying on them. ‘No, we’re not,’ said your microwave.” — SETH MEYERS“In Indiana, police found a man at a White Castle with a container of dangerous chemicals. Yeah, a man at a White Castle with dangerous chemicals is known as the cook.” — CONAN O’BRIENBurt Reynolds gave an, ahem, revealing interview about a great moment in American history.Whose cellphone are we snooping on? RuPaul’s, Jenny Slate’s or Kumail Nanjiani’s?John Oliver, the host of HBO’s “Last Week Tonight,” sits down with Seth Meyers on Tuesday. They’re likely to discuss anxieties about the Russia investigation.In a searing new standup show, the comic Hannah Gadsby targets Louis C.K., Harvey Weinstein and Bill Clinton, as well as “the culture that enables and excuses abuse.” Our comedy critic calls Gadsby a major new talent.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementSupported byRevelations that digital consultants to the Trump campaign misused the data of millions of Facebook users set off a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. This is how The Times covered it.By Nicholas ConfessoreIn March, The New York Times, working with The Observer of London and The Guardian, obtained a cache of documents from inside Cambridge Analytica, the data firm principally owned by the right-wing donor Robert Mercer. The documents proved that the firm, where the former Trump aide Stephen K. Bannon was a board member, used data improperly obtained from Facebook to build voter profiles. The news put Cambridge under investigation and thrust Facebook into its biggest crisis ever. Here’s a guide to our coverage.March 17The Times reported that in 2014 contractors and employees of Cambridge Analytica, eager to sell psychological profiles of American voters to political campaigns, acquired the private Facebook data of tens of millions of users — the largest known leak in Facebook history. There was more. Our article first showed how Cambridge received warnings from its own lawyer, Laurence Levy, as it employed European and Canadian citizens on campaigns, potentially violating American election law. The Times also found that tranches of raw data still existed beyond Facebook’s control.Read how researchers may have used your Facebook “likes” to predict your political views.In a companion piece, The Times reported that people at Cambridge Analytica and its British affiliate, the SCL Group, were in contact with executives from Lukoil, the Kremlin-linked oil giant, as Cambridge built its Facebook-derived profiles. Lukoil was interested in the ways data was used to target American voters, according to two former company insiders. SCL and Lukoil denied that the talks were political in nature and said the oil giant never became a client.March 18The articles drew an instant response in Washington, where lawmakers demanded that Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, testify before Congress. Democrats looking into Russian interference in the 2016 election — already interested in Cambridge’s role in providing analytics to the Trump campaign — said they would seek an investigation into the leak. They were echoed by lawmakers in Britain investigating Cambridge Analytica’s role in disinformation and the country’s referendum to leave the European Union. March 20The Times reported that Cambridge suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after a British television channel released an undercover video in which he suggested that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections. In Washington, the Federal Trade Commission moved to investigate whether Facebook had violated an early agreement to safeguard user data. March 21The Times reported on a growing number of Facebook users, including the singer Cher, deleting their accounts — and broke news of the departure of Facebook’s top security official, who had clashed with other executives on how to handling discontent over the platform’s role in spreading disinformation. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook began trending on Twitter. After remaining silent for days — spurring another social media hashtag, #WheresZuck? — Mr. Zuckerberg spoke with The Times about steps Facebook was taking to address users’ anger.Our columnist Brian X. Chen explains how to protect your Facebook data.March 23As Facebook reeled, The Times delved into the relationship between Cambridge Analytica and John Bolton, the conservative hawk named national security adviser by President Trump. The Times broke the news that in 2014, Cambridge provided Mr. Bolton’s “super PAC” with early versions of its Facebook-derived profiles — the technology’s first large-scale use in an American election.What about 2016? We examined the skepticism and evidence around the role Cambridge claimed it played in Mr. Trump’s win.Cambridge Analytica helped develop ads for candidates supported by John Bolton's “super PAC.”March 24The Times and The Observer reported allegations that the 2016 “Brexit” campaign used a Cambridge Analytica contractor to help skirt election spending limits. The story implicated two senior advisers to Prime Minister Theresa May. Testifying to Parliament a few days later, a former Cambridge employee, Christopher Wylie, contended that the company helped swing the results in favor of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.March 28In another report, The Times showed how an employee at Palantir Technologies — an intelligence contractor founded by the Trump backer and tech investor Peter Thiel — helped Cambridge harvest Facebook data. The article reported that Palantir and Cambridge executives briefly considered a formal partnership to work on political campaigns. Though the deal fell through, a Palantir employee continued working with Cambridge to figure out how to obtain data for psychographic profiles. Palantir officials said the employee did so in a strictly personal capacity.April 4The Times originally reported that Cambridge harvested data from over 50 million Facebook users. But at the bottom of a company announcement about new privacy features, Facebook’s chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, issued a new estimate for the number of users who were affected: as many as 87 million, most of them in the United States.Facebook is responding to users’ distrust. Read how the company introduced a central privacy page. Nicholas Confessore is a New York-based political and investigative reporter at The Times and a writer-at-large at The Times Magazine, covering the intersection of wealth, power and influence in Washington and beyond. He joined The Times in 2004.  @nickconfessoreFacebookAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS"
"AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 2:57 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on Facebook's privacy scandal (all times local):2:30 p.m.Facebook has been secretly deleting some messages CEO Mark Zuckerberg sent through its Messenger application, an option that hasn't been available to most of the social network's 2.2 billion users.The company says it has been removing Zuckerberg's messages from the inboxes of various people for several years. The recipients of Zuckerberg's messages weren't informed before that happened. Facebook is making the acknowledgement Friday after TechCrunch first reported the tactic.Facebook says it began erasing the messages of Zuckerberg and a few other top executives in 2014 after computer hackers obtained and released emails from Sony Pictures executives. The Sony messages included disparaging remarks about movie stars and other people in the entertainment industry.Although the ability to automatically delete sent texts hadn't been previously available, Facebook says it now plans to make it available to all users. The company apologized for not doing so sooner.AdvertisementThe development comes as Facebook faces questions about trust in light of one of its worst privacy scandals in its 14-year history.Advertisement___2 p.m.Facebook says it will require advertisers who want to run either political ads or so-called ""issue ads"" —which may not endorse a specific candidate or party but which discuss political topics— to verify themselves.Facebook is working to strengthen its system ahead of this year's U.S. midterm elections and other elections around the world. The company has already required political ads to verify who is paying for them and where the advertiser is located. The requirement for issue ads is new.In addition, Facebook says it will also require the administrators of pages with a ""large number"" of followers to verify their identities and addresses. The company did not specify what number of followers would trigger the requirement.The moves are intended to clamp down on fake pages and accounts such as those used to disrupt the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S. and elsewhere.___1:15 p.m.Facebook will begin alerting users whose private data may have been compromised in the Cambridge Analytica scandal starting Monday.All 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice on their feeds titled ""Protecting Your Information."" It will have a link to information on which Facebook apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps.In addition, 87 million users whose data might have been shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of that fact.AdvertisementThe political data-mining firm allegedly used ill-gotten Facebook user data in its efforts to sway elections. Cambridge Analytica says it only ever received data on 30 million users.___9:40 a.m.Sheryl Sandberg says Facebook should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.The company's chief operating officer told NBC's ""Today"" show that Facebook is now undertaking that audit. Sandberg said that at the time, Facebook received legal assurances that Cambridge Analytica had deleted the improperly obtained information.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She says, ""What we didn't do is the next step of an audit and we're trying to that now.""The company is facing a global backlash over the improper data-sharing scandal. Hearings over the issue are scheduled in the U.S., and the European Union is considering what actions to take against the company.___6:45 a.m.The European Union says that Facebook has told it that up to 2.7 million people in the 28-nation bloc may have been victim of improper data sharing involving political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said Friday that EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call with Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, early next week to address the massive data leaks.The EU and Facebook will be looking at what changes the social media giant needs to make to better protect users and how the U.S. company must adapt to new EU data protection rules.Wigand said that EU data protection authorities will discuss over the coming days ""a strong coordinated approach"" on how to deal with the Facebook investigation.___5 a.m.Civil society and rights groups in Myanmar say Facebook has failed to adequately act against online hate speech that incites violence against the country's Muslim minority.AdvertisementPhandeeyar, a digital innovation lab, and five other groups wrote an open letter to Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, challenging his contention in a recent interview that the social media platform had effectively combated hate speech targeting the Rohingya community that's being persecuted in western Myanmar.Htaike Htaike Aung, executive director of one of the groups, Myanmar ICT for Development Organization, says Facebook has been a useful tool for people in Myanmar to exercise freedom of expression, but it had failed to effectively enforce rules to make it a safe community for all.___4:15 a.m.Indonesia says Facebook is being investigated over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology says in a statement Friday it has asked the National Police to investigate possible violations of Indonesia's privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica.It says Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted.The ministry has summoned the representatives late Thursday and asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users' personal information.Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari says they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy KEVIN GRANVILLEMARCH 19, 2018
Our report that a political firm hired by the Trump campaign acquired access to private data on millions of Facebook users has sparked new questions about how the social media giant protects user information.Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Trump’s 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users. The firm offered tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior.Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen K. Bannon, a former adviser to the president who became an early board member and gave the firm its name. It has pitched its services to potential clients ranging from Mastercard and the New York Yankees to the Joint Chiefs of Staff.On Monday, a British TV news report cast it in a harsher light, showing video of Cambridge Analytica executives offering to entrap politicians. A day later, as a furor grew, the company suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix.Read more about how Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign became linked.Behind the data: How researchers use Facebook “likes” to sway your thinking. AdvertisementThe data, a portion of which was viewed by The New York Times, included details on users’ identities, friend networks and “likes.” The idea was to map personality traits based on what people had liked on Facebook, and then use that information to target audiences with digital ads.Researchers in 2014 asked users to take a personality survey and download an app, which scraped some private information from their profiles and those of their friends, activity that Facebook permitted at the time and has since banned.The technique had been developed at Cambridge University’s Psychometrics Center. The center declined to work with Cambridge Analytica, but Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American psychology professor at the university, was willing.Dr. Kogan built his own app and in June 2014 began harvesting data for Cambridge Analytica.He ultimately provided over 50 million raw profiles to the firm, said Christopher Wylie, a data expert who oversaw Cambridge Analytica’s data harvesting. Only about 270,000 users — those who participated in the survey — had consented to having their data harvested, though they were all told that it was being used for academic use.Facebook said no passwords or “sensitive pieces of information” had been taken, though information about a user’s location was available to Cambridge.Read more about the internal tension at the top of Facebook over the platform’s political exploitation.Facebook in recent days has insisted that what Cambridge did was  not a data breach, because it routinely allows researchers to have access to user data for academic purposes — and users consent to this access when they create a Facebook account.AdvertisementBut Facebook prohibits this kind of data to be sold or transferred “to any ad network, data broker or other advertising or monetization-related service.” It says that was exactly what Dr. Kogan did, in providing the information to a political consulting firm.Dr. Kogan declined to provide The Times with details of what had happened, citing nondisclosure agreements with Facebook and Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica officials, after denying that they had obtained or used Facebook data, changed their story last week. In a statement to The Times, the company acknowledged that it had acquired the data, though it blamed Dr. Kogan for violating Facebook’s rules and said it had deleted the information as soon as it learned of the problem two years ago.But the data, or at least copies, may still exist. The Times was recently able to view a set of raw data from the profiles Cambridge Analytica obtained.Read more about how Facebook allows third-party apps to collect users’ data.The company issued a statement on Friday saying that in 2015, when it learned that Dr. Kogan’s research had been turned over to Cambridge Analytica, violating its terms of service, it removed Dr. Kogan’s app from the site. It said it had demanded and received certification that the data had been destroyed.Facebook also said: “Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted. We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. If true, this is another unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments they made. We are suspending SCL/Cambridge Analytica, Wylie and Kogan from Facebook, pending further information.”In a further step, Facebook said Monday that it had hired a digital forensics firm “to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists.” It said that Cambridge Analytica had agreed to the review and that Dr. Kogan had given a verbal commitment, while Mr. Wylie “thus far has declined.”Read more about how to protect your data on Facebook.Facebook, already facing deep questions over the use of its platform by those seeking to spread Russian propaganda and fake news, is facing a renewed backlash after the news about Cambridge Analytica. Investors have not been pleased, sending shares of the company down more than 8 percent since Friday.Advertisement?The Federal Trade Commission said Tuesday it is investigating whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent agreement to keep users’ data private.? In Congress, Senators Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, and John Kennedy, a Republican from Louisiana, have asked to hold a hearing on Facebook’s links to Cambridge Analytica. Republican leaders of the Senate Commerce Committee, led by John Thune of South Dakota, wrote a letter on Monday to Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, demanding answers to questions about how the data was collected.? A British Parliament committee sent a letter to Mr. Zuckerberg asking him to appear before the panel to answer questions on Facebook’s ties to Cambridge Analytica.? The attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey, announced on Saturday that her office was opening an investigation. “Massachusetts residents deserve answers immediately from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica,” she said in a Twitter post. Facebook’s lack of disclosure on the harvesting of data could violate privacy laws in Britain and several states.Read more details on the fallout.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy MATTHEW ROSENBERGMARCH 19, 2018
WASHINGTON — Sitting in a hotel bar, Alexander Nix, who runs the political data firm Cambridge Analytica, had a few ideas for a prospective client looking for help in a foreign election. The firm could send an attractive woman to seduce a rival candidate and secretly videotape the encounter, Mr. Nix said, or send someone posing as a wealthy land developer to pass a bribe.“We have a long history of working behind the scenes,” Mr. Nix said.The prospective client, though, was actually a reporter from Channel 4 News in Britain, and the encounter was secretly filmed as part of a monthslong investigation into Cambridge Analytica, the data firm with ties to President Trump’s 2016 campaign.The results of Channel 4’s work were broadcast in Britain on Monday, days after reports in The New York Times and The Observer of London that the firm had harvested the data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles in its bid to develop techniques for predicting the behavior of individual American voters.The weekend’s reports about the data misuse have prompted calls from lawmakers in Britain and the United States for renewed scrutiny of Facebook, and at least two American state prosecutors have said they are looking into the misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica.AdvertisementNow, the Channel 4 broadcast appears likely to cast an even harsher spotlight on the company, which was founded by Stephen K. Bannon and Robert Mercer, a wealthy Republican donor who has put at least $15 million into Cambridge Analytica.AdvertisementThe firm’s so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned its work for the Trump campaign in 2016, though many have questioned their effectiveness.Less noticed has been the work that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, the SCL Group, have done outside the United States. The operations of the two companies were set up with a convoluted corporate structure and are deeply intertwined.Mr. Nix, for instance, holds dual appointments at the two companies. Cambridge Analytica is registered in Delaware and almost wholly owned by the Mercer family, but it is effectively a shell — it holds intellectual property rights to its so-called psychographic modeling tools, yet its clients are served by the staff at London-based SCL and overseen by Mr. Nix, who is a British citizen.SCL Elections has clients around the world, and it has experimented with data-driven microtargeting techniques in the Caribbean and Africa, where privacy rules are lax or nonexistent and politicians employing SCL have been happy to provide government-held data, according to former employees.[ALSO READ: How Cambridge Analytica Harvested Facebook Data, Triggering a New Outcry]But in the footage broadcast by Channel 4, Mr. Nix offered services that go far beyond data harvesting. The Times did not work with Channel 4 on its report about Cambridge Analytica.“Many of our clients don’t want to be seen to be working with a foreign company,” he told the Channel 4 reporter, who was not identified. “We can set up fake IDs and websites, we can be students doing research projects attached to a university, we can be tourists. There’s so many options we can look at.”The Channel 4 reporter posed as a “fixer” for a wealthy Sri Lankan family that wanted to help politicians they favored. In a series of meetings at London hotels between November and January, all of which were secretly filmed, Mr. Nix and other executives boasted that Cambridge Analytica employs front companies and former spies on behalf of political clients.AdvertisementThe information that is uncovered through such clandestine work is then put “into the bloodstream to the internet,” said Mark Turnbull, another Cambridge executive, in an encounter in December 2017 at the Berkeley hotel in London.“Then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again, over time, to watch it take shape,” he added. “It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘That’s propaganda.’ Because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda,’ the next question is, ‘Who’s put that out?’”The most damning footage, though, was of Mr. Nix’s suggestion that the company could entrap political rivals through seduction or bribery.At a meeting in January, also at the Berkeley hotel, Mr. Nix was direct about the techniques SCL could use to aid a client.“I mean, deep digging is interesting,” he said. “But you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true, and make sure that that’s video-recorded, you know. These sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Nix then suggested they could have someone pose as a wealthy developer. “They will offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance,” he said. “We’ll have the whole thing recorded on cameras.”Or, Mr. Nix said, they could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house — we have lots of history of things.”The reporter asked what kind of girls, and Mr. Nix said they could find some Ukrainian women. “I’m just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know,” Mr. Nix replied. “You know what I’m saying.”“They are very beautiful,” he said. “I find that works very well.”To be sure, though, Mr. Nix said that he was speaking only in hypotheticals. “Please don’t pay too much attention to what I’m saying because I’m just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done,” he said.AdvertisementCambridge Analytica, in a statement issued after the Channel 4 broadcast, said the report was “edited and scripted to grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how the company conducts its business.”The company said that it was the undercover reporter who had raised the idea of entrapping politicians, and that the executives had been trying to assess his intent. Mr. Nix and Mr. Turnbull “humored these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions,” it said.“They left with grave concerns and did not meet with him again,” the company said.For Mr. Nix, the footage comes at an already perilous moment. Earlier this month, he told a parliamentary inquiry into fake news and Russian interference in Britain’s referendum to exit the European Union that Cambridge Analytica never used or possessed Facebook data.But following the reports in The Times and Observer on Saturday, Damian Collins, the Conservative lawmaker leading the inquiry, said he planned to call Mr. Nix back to testify.“It seems clear that he has deliberately misled the committee and Parliament,” Mr. Collins said in a statement this weekend.Elizabeth Denham, the British information commissioner, told Channel 4 News that on March 7 she asked for access to Cambridge Analytica, setting a deadline of 6 p.m. Monday. Ms. Denham said she did not accept the response as satisfactory and so would be applying in court on Tuesday for a warrant.“We need to look at the databases, we need to look at the servers and understand how the data was processed,” she said.In a statement, Facebook said that it had “hired a digital forensics firm, Stroz Friedberg, to conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica.”AdvertisementBut Mr. Collins, who is chairman of the House of Commons digital, culture, media and sport committee, said he was concerned that Facebook might gain access to data before the information commissioner did.“What are they doing?” Mr. Collins asked on Channel 4 News. “Are they going in to physically recover data, to disturb the files? This investigation should be for the authorities.”
            Facebook have confirmed that auditors and legal counsel acting on behalf of the company were in the offices of Cambridge Analytica this evening until they were told to stand down by the Information Commissioner. These investigations need to be undertaken by the proper authorities        Mr. Collins said that the former Cambridge Analytica employee who came forward to disclose his company’s actions, Christopher Wylie, would be giving evidence to his committee. He said he wanted Mark Zuckerberg, or another senior executive from Facebook, to do the same.Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter: @AllMattNYT.Stephen Castle contributed reporting from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Political Firm Laid Out a List Of Dirty Tricks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy MATTHEW ROSENBERGMARCH 20, 2018
Cambridge Analytica, the political data firm with ties to President Trump’s 2016 campaign, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday, amid the furor over the access it gained to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users.The decision came after a television broadcast in which Mr. Nix was recorded suggesting that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections.The suspension represented a new low point for the fortunes of Cambridge Analytica and for Mr. Nix, who spent much of the past year making bold claims about the role his outfit played in the election of Mr. Trump. The company, founded by Stephen K. Bannon and Robert Mercer, a wealthy Republican donor who has put at least $15 million into it, offered tools that it claimed could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior.So-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned Cambridge Analytica’s work for the Trump campaign in 2016. Mr. Nix once called the practice “our secret sauce,” though some have questioned its effectiveness.AdvertisementBut in recent days, the firm has found itself under increased scrutiny from lawmakers, regulators and prosecutors in the United States and Britain following reports in The New York Times and The Observer of London that the firm had harvested the Facebook data, and that it still had a copy of the information.AdvertisementThe reports quickly put Mr. Nix in the cross hairs of a parliamentary committee investigating fake news and Russian interference in Britain’s referendum to exit the European Union. Earlier this month, he told the committee that Cambridge Analytica had never obtained or used Facebook data — a statement that the firm itself has contradicted in recent days.But it was Monday’s broadcast by Channel 4 News in Britain that appeared to push the board of Cambridge Analytica to move against Mr. Nix. Channel 4 spent months investigating the company, and sent a reporter to pose as a prospective client from Sri Lanka, secretly filming the encounters with Mr. Nix.The most damning footage was captured in January when Mr. Nix, sitting in a hotel bar in London, suggested the firm could send an attractive woman to seduce a rival candidate and secretly videotape the encounter, or send someone posing as a wealthy land developer to pass a bribe.“We have a long history of working behind the scenes,” Mr. Nix said.Inside Cambridge Analytica, Mr. Nix, the scion of a wealthy family who attended Eton College, the exclusive secondary school, had a reputation for lashing out at staff members, and for aggressively pursuing deals.Christopher Wylie, a data expert who worked at the firm in 2013 and 2014 and helped develop its voter-profiling technology, said in a recent interview that he kept memberships at a number of exclusive strip clubs near Pall Mall in London at the insistence of Mr. Nix, who often entertained clients from African and Caribbean countries there.“Why would I have these memberships?” said Mr. Wylie, who is gay. “I didn’t want them.”Channel 4 followed up Tuesday with a second part of its investigation that focused mainly on Mr. Nix’s claims that Cambridge Analytica played a pivotal role in the election of Mr. Trump — a claim that many inside the Trump campaign have disputed.The Channel 4 report also included allegations first reported by The Times this past weekend that Cambridge Analytica’s use of foreigners to work on election campaigns in the United States could have violated American election laws. (The Times did not work with Channel 4.)AdvertisementAnnouncing its chief executive’s suspension, Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that “in the view of the board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation.”The company said it had asked Alexander Tayler, its chief data officer, to serve as its acting chief executive. Mr. Tayler trained as a chemical engineer and joined Cambridge Analytica in 2014 as its lead data scientist, according to his LinkedIn profile.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At the same time, the company said it was initiating an “independent investigation” of Mr. Nix’s comments and the allegations facing the firm.The company said it had hired a lawyer, Julian Malins, “to lead this investigation, the findings of which the board will share publicly in due course.”It added: “The board will be monitoring the situation closely, working closely with Dr. Tayler, to ensure that Cambridge Analytica, in all of its operations, represents the firm’s values and delivers the highest-quality service to its clients.”It was not immediately clear what impact Mr. Nix’s resignation would have on the SCL Group, the parent company of Cambridge Analytica. The companies were set up with a convoluted corporate structure, and their operations are deeply intertwined.Mr. Nix, for instance, holds dual appointments at the two companies. Cambridge Analytica is registered in Delaware and almost wholly owned by the Mercer family, but it is effectively a shell — it holds intellectual property rights to its psychographic modeling tools, yet its clients are served by the staff at London-based SCL and overseen by Mr. Nix, who is a British citizen.Neither the Mercer family nor Mr. Bannon has publicly commented since the reports in the Times and The Observer.Facebook, too, has sought to avoid the spotlight but also found itself under a similarly unwelcome glare. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission said on Tuesday that it had opened an investigation into whether Facebook violated an agreement with the agency on data privacy.AdvertisementIn addition, Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general of New York, said the state was joining Massachusetts in an investigation into whether the company failed to protect the privacy of users in those states. Their attorneys general have demanded that Facebook hand over information about its interactions with Cambridge Analytica.“Consumers have a right to know how their information is used — and companies like Facebook have a fundamental responsibility to protect their users’ personal information,” Mr. Schneiderman said.In Britain, Damian Collins, the chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee of the House of Commons, which is running the inquiry into fake news, called on Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to give evidence to Parliament.In a letter, Mr. Collins said that previous answers from Facebook officials about the misuse of data had been “misleading.”“It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process,” the letter said, adding, “I hope that this representative will be you.”Stephen Castle and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 21, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Cambridge Analytica Suspends Its C.E.O.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 2:27 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook's No. 2 executive says the company should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg told NBC's ""Today"" show that at the time, Facebook received legal assurances that Cambridge Analytica had deleted the improperly obtained information.""What we didn't do is the next step of an audit and we're trying to that now,"" she said.The audit of Cambridge Analytica is on hold, in deference to a U.K. investigation. But Facebook has been conducting a broader review of its own practices and how other third-party apps use data.In addition, Facebook announced on Friday that it will require advertisers who want to run not just political ads, but also or so called ""issue ads"" —which may not endorse specific candidates or parties but discuss political topics— to be verified.AdvertisementFacebook is trying to strengthen its system ahead of this year's U.S. midterm elections as well as upcoming elections around the world. Facebook has already required political ads to verify who is paying for them and where the advertiser is located. The issue ads requirement is new.AdvertisementFacebook will also require the administrators of pages with a ""large number"" of followers to also be verified. The company did not say what this number would be. The move is intended to clamp down on fake pages and accounts that were used to disrupt the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S.Facebook says page administrators and advertisers will be verified by being asked to provide a government-issued ID. To verify addresses, it will mail a postcard with a unique code that the recipient can then enter into Facebook. This is similar to how Airbnb and other services verify addresses.The company is facing a global backlash over the improper data-sharing scandal. Hearings over the issue are scheduled in the U.S., and the European Union is considering what actions to take against the company.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sandberg also told NBC that if users were able to opt out of being shown ads, ""at the highest level, that would be a paid product."" This does not mean the company is planning to let users do this. Zuckerberg has made similar statements in the past, but has added that Facebook remains committed to offering a free service paid for by advertising.Facebook users can opt out of seeing targeted ads, but can't shut off ads altogether. Neither can they opt entirely out of Facebook's data collection.Sandberg gave several interviews this week as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress next week, where the issue of elections meddling is almost certain to come up.Facebook is also facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in what's become its worst privacy crisis in its 14-year history.It started with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm, improperly accessed the private information of tens of millions of users to try to influence elections around the world. Over the past three weeks the scandal continued to spiral. For one, Facebook executives took nearly five days to respond to the Cambridge Analytica reports.Then, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting information about phone calls they made and text messages they sent. Facebook also acknowledged this week that nearly all of its 2.2 billion users may have had their public data scraped by ""malicious actors"" it did not name.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy JINA MOOREMARCH 20, 2018
NAIROBI — A data analytics firm at the center of a controversy over its  acquisition and use of personal Facebook data in the 2016 United States presidential election is under new scrutiny for its role in Kenya’s presidential election last year.Senior officials of Cambridge Analytica, whose parent company is the SCL Group, said in an undercover video by Channel 4 News of Britain that the company played a critical role in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s two campaigns, in 2013 and 2017.The revelations come only weeks after Mr. Kenyatta and his chief rival, Raila Odinga, reconciled after months of contention.In the video, Mark Turnbull, a Cambridge Analytica executive, said the company twice rebranded Mr. Kenyatta’s political party, wrote his campaign speeches and his political platform, and twice conducted surveys of 50,000 people to ascertain Kenyan voters’ hope and fears.AdvertisementA spokesman for Mr. Kenyatta referred inquiries to his party, the Jubilee Party, whose top official did not respond to messages seeking comment on Tuesday night.AdvertisementMr. Kenyatta won re-election last October after two presidential votes. The first, in August, was nullified by the Supreme Court, which cited widespread irregularities and ordered a second election. Mr. Odinga pulled out of the second vote, which was held in October, saying the process was unfair.The acrimonious political season included divisive speech by both parties, observers said, and continued well past Mr. Kenyatta’s inauguration. The two archrivals shook hands and reconciled  this month.Moses Karanja, a researcher on a project at Strathmore Law School in Nairobi about social media and misinformation during the presidential election, said the recent reports about Cambridge Analytica’s role in Kenya, and its abuse of Facebook data globally, reinforced concerns raised in his own work about how Kenyans’ personal data was accessed by political parties and even by government institutions, like the elections commission.He said targeted text messages that he and others received during the campaign season suggested that individuals’ voter registration information, social media data and telephone numbers were being independently linked — although it’s still unclear how.“We don’t know how they accessed this data, or how it all ended up being linked to phone numbers and such,” Mr. Karanja said. “For me that’s scary. Those are questions those platforms should answer.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Gacheke Gachihi, who leads the Mathare Social Justice Center in Nairobi, said Cambridge Analytica’s branding for Mr. Kenyatta was “divisive propaganda,” raising ethnic enmity.“The way you paint your opponent, you paint also his supporters,” he said, “and you and your ethnic base will feel like, ‘This man is a devil.’ That undermines the work we are trying to do for social justice.”Local news media had reported last spring that Mr. Kenyatta’s party had retained Cambridge Analytica for his re-election campaign. And David Murathe, the vice chairman of the Jubilee Party, told Reuters on Tuesday that SCL helped the campaign with branding last year.AdvertisementMr. Odinga’s party also enlisted a data-driven political consulting firm, but its on-the-ground team was deported from Kenya just a week before the election, according to The Los Angeles Times.On its website, Cambridge Analytica names Kenya as one of its political case studies, describing a 47,000-person survey it conducted in 2013 to identify Kenyan voters “real needs (jobs)” and “fears (tribal violence),” as well as their “preferred information channels.”The company also said it targeted youth voters with a social media campaign.Cambridge Analytica’s parent group, SCL, described similar activities on an archived page of its website, and said it also advised on communications, branding and strategy during the electoral period.Cambridge said its survey was “the largest political research project ever conducted in East Africa.” Mr. Turnbull told Channel 4’s undercover reporter that it repeated the survey in 2017.Those survey results, Mr. Karanja said, could reverberate beyond social media campaigns and “be translated into non-Internet platforms like radio, television advertisements and billboards.”He said his research team documented several examples of misinformation spreading on WhatsApp and other social media and filtering down to local talk radio shows or newspaper articles.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
Who Was the YouTube Shooter?Footage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynTrump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventAnatomy of a Scene | ‘Blockers’Trump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalThe Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeBaffled by Bitcoin? How Cryptocurrency Works
"AdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVEAPRIL 4, 2018
Want the Australia Letter by email? Sign up and forward to your friends for heaps of global coverage and provocative Australia insight. ______When Francesca Donner, director of The New York Times Gender Initiative, arrived in Australia a few weeks ago, she was almost immediately swept up in the wave of #MeToo and news media activities.In addition to public panels on the #MeToo movement, there were conferences, university discussions and a dinner with young female New York Times readers to talk about our coverage.Everyone, it seemed, had something to say about #MeToo.On her way back to New York, Francesca jotted down a few impressions about Australia’s gender movement and how it compares with what’s happening in the United States.AdvertisementHer thoughts raised as many questions as they answered, and we hope you’ll share your insights as we unpack the issue.AdvertisementNotebook from SydneyBecause I’m director of the New York Times Gender Initiative, many people I met on my travels wanted to talk me about women and Trump and women and sexual harassment and women and Harvey and women and the workplace and women and women and women.But they also had a few things to share, too.The rumblings from women and people in their 20s and 30s began almost at once:“Australian politics is a boys’ club. The journalists here don’t cover politicians as aggressively as they do in the U.S. Exhibit A (and B and C and D): Barnaby Joyce!”“And the press! The press! There are so few publications we identify with! Most young people just turn away and shrug.”“And the defamation laws! It’s almost impossible for the press to cover sexual harassment. Meanwhile, sexual harassment is rife in universities, at workplaces and on and on!”And yet.The Sydney Opera House was hosting a day all about women called “All About Women.” Attendees who were mostly women (and a few odd men out) turned out in the thousands. The festival aired around the country on local TV stations. People tuned in.And yet.The ABC devoted episodes to International Women’s Day and two ABC national radio stations (Fran Kelly and Richard Glover) invited me on to talk Harvey Weinstein and, you guessed it, women.Coming soon: A newsletter on women, gender and society.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And yet.Gay marriage had been recently legalized. And the city of Sydney would pay homage to the passing of the law at its 40th Anniversary Mardi Gras celebrations. AdvertisementAnd yet.Barnaby Joyce, the former deputy prime minister, a champion of family values, who had fathered a child with a staff member who was not his wife, and accepted a rent-free townhouse from a millionaire politician, had stepped down from his post. On the surface it looked like progress but underneath, was it? It got me thinking: What should women (and others) in Australia realistically expect from a gender movement? Are hopes pinned too high? Or do expectations not go far enough? So here are my questions for you, Australia: How do you think the movement in Australia compares with the wave of accountability sweeping the rest of the world?And what does gender progress in a macho country like Australia look like, anyway? Tell us what you what you think. Send feedback to nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join us in our Facebook group and we’ll feature some of your comments in next week’s newsletter.Now let’s catch up with news of the week, and what to watch on Netflix on April.______The Chinese government has long sought to shape and control information, but the scope and intensity of the Communist Party’s censoring effort has intensified and Hong Kong booksellers like Lam Wing-kee are the ones paying the price.“I never expected anything like this, just as a poor man never dreams of striking it rich overnight,” Mr. Lam said.______Sometimes the most memorable stories are those of a single individual who hit a fork in the road, and took off in a surprising direction.This is one of those stories capturing the life of a violin prodigy, who left the music behind, almost.Advertisement______News and Features• Australians Are the World’s Biggest Gambling Losers, and Some Seek Action: The average Australian adult loses around $900 to gambling each year — more than double the rate of Americans — and electronic gaming machines are getting the blame.• An International Final Four: Which Country Handles Student Debt Best? In America, college student loan defaults are a really big problem. In Australia? No worries.• No Hat, No Play: It’s strange the things you miss when you move away.• Momofuku Seiobo Champions Caribbean Food With Australia’s Bounty: Paul Carmichael, the chef, delivers a profoundly pleasurable experience at the Sydney location of David Chang’s restaurant group.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• South Africa Says Australia Retracted Claim of ‘Persecuted’ White Farmers: Australia has disavowed its home minister’s view that white farmers needed refuge in a “civilized country,” South Africa’s top diplomat says.Sports• A Hero of Australian Surfing Paddles Out One Last Time: Mick Fanning, a three-time world champion whose list of accomplishments includes punching a great white shark, is preparing his exit from pro surfing.• Cricket Hero Breaks Down in Tears on TV Over Cheating: A cheating scandal over a plot by Australia’s team captain has seized the cricket world and turned into a national embarrassment.• Australian Cricket Has Its Own Deflategate, and a Nation Reels: Steve Smith, one of the country’s most revered sportsmen, admits his role in a ball-tampering scheme, prompting national discussion and soul-searching.• At the Commonwealth Games, Competing for Medals and Relevance: The Games will soon descend onto the Gold Coast’s beaches, bringing an array of the world’s best athletes, and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.Advertisement• What to Do in Australia’s Gold Coast: There is no shortage of bland but familiar luxury. If you dig a little, though, there is a lot more to the city than its glittery facade.______Don’t Fix Facebook. Replace It. Tim Wu argues that in the wake of Facebook’s latest scandal, we need better options that are designed to protect our privacy.The Autocrats’ Playbook. Michelle Goldberg says you don’t have to love Amazon to see the risk of Donald Trump’s threats against the company.How to Talk About ‘Race’ and Genetics. A much-discussed Sunday Review essay by David Reich asks: How should scientists handle the eventuality that for a few traits, average differences among populations will be discovered?______Here’s our monthly guide to what’s on Netflix in Australia, which always seems to be popular with our readers and subscribers.My personal pick: “The Lobster.” If I even tried to explain it, I would fail miserably — but it’s definitely a memorable film. It’s about love. And dictatorship. Maybe.Here’s a New York Times review to give us all a hand.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing. Or better yet, just subscribe! We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2018, 4:52 A.M. E.D.T.
JAKARTA, Indonesia —  Indonesian government said Friday it is investigating Facebook over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology said in a statement that it had asked the National Police chief to investigate possible violations of Indonesia's privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica.It said Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted.The ministry summoned the representatives late Thursday to deliver a warning letter.Communications Minister Rudiantara told reporters after the meeting that he has asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users' personal information.Advertisement""We ask Facebook to provide us their audit results to see how the personal information is used by the Cambridge Analytica,"" said Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses a single name.Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari said they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government.Advertisement""Our main goal is to secure privacy data of all Facebook users,"" Hattari said after the meeting.Indonesia is the world's fourth-largest Facebook user with more than 115 million active members, and nearly 97 percent of them are on mobile devices.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy CECILIA KANG and SHEERA FRENKELAPRIL 4, 2018
WASHINGTON — Facebook on Wednesday said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm connected to President Trump during the 2016 election — a figure far higher than the estimate of 50 million that had been widely cited since the leak was reported last month.Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, also announced that Facebook would offer all of its users the same tools and controls required under European privacy rules. The European rules, which go into effect next month, give people more control over how companies use their digital data.Facebook had not previously disclosed how many accounts had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, the firm connected to the Trump campaign. It has also been reluctant to disclose how it was used by Russian-backed actors to influence the 2016 presidential election.Among Facebook’s acknowledgments on Wednesday was the disclosure of a vulnerability in its search and account recovery functions that it said could have exposed “most” of its 2 billion users to having their public profile information harvested.AdvertisementThe new effort to appear more transparent about the data leaks — including a rare question-and-answer session with Mr. Zuckerberg and reporters — came just before Mr. Zuckerberg’s expected testimony next week on Capitol Hill, where he will most likely face criticism over how the company collects and shares the personal data of its users. Sheryl Sandberg, Mr. Zuckerberg’s top deputy, has several national television interviews scheduled for later this week.AdvertisementThe company said that on Monday it would start telling users whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook in Washington, said the 87 million figure was an estimate of the total number of users whose data could have been acquired by Cambridge Analytica. He said that the estimate was calculated by adding up all the friends of the people who had logged into the Facebook app from which Cambridge Analytica collected profile data.“We wanted to put out the maximum number of people who could have been affected,” Mr. Zuckerberg told reporters.It remains unclear exactly how many users had their personal information accessed by Cambridge Analytica. The firm said Wednesday that it had licensed data for no more than 30 million users of the social network.
         Revelations that consultants to the Trump campaign misused millions of Facebook users’ data set off an international furor. This is how The Times covered it.
      Facebook also released a lengthy document describing how it would protect personal data in the future. In that document, Facebook said its search and account recovery systems had been open to abuse by anyone who already had some information about an individual, such as a phone number or email address. The vulnerability extended to much of the platform’s user base before it was closed on Wednesday, Facebook said.The company also said it would limit the types of data that can be harvested by software used by outside businesses. The changes mean that users will have to give permission before an app can collect information beyond their names and addresses.The company also said it would no longer allow outsiders to use apps to gather information about the religious or political views of its users. And it will stop using third-party data from companies such as Experian and Acxiom to help supplement its own data for ad targeting.Advertisement“It’s clear now that we didn’t focus enough on preventing abuse,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “We didn’t take a broad enough view of what our responsibility is. That was a huge mistake, and it was my mistake.”The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a 2011 agreement meant to protect users’ privacy. User data is crucial to the company’s business, because it is used to deliver advertising to users.Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify about the company’s handling of sensitive user data before the Senate’s Commerce and Judiciary committees on Tuesday and the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.“This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues,” said Representatives Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, and Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, of the House committee.Senator Chuck Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said, “With all of the data exchanged over Facebook and other platforms, users deserve to know how their information is shared and secured.”Facebook’s problems stretch back before the reports about Cambridge Analytica, to earlier investigations into how Russian actors infiltrated the platform by placing ads and posts to influence the 2016 election. Mr. Zuckerberg initially dismissed the idea of foreign interference on Facebook as a “crazy idea.”Since then, the company has been the focus of investigations by law enforcement and congressional committees that are delving into the Russian influence campaign. Facebook now acknowledges that its platform was used to sway voters.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.All those troubles have prompted investors to flee the company, and its stock has fallen sharply in recent weeks.AdvertisementIn response, the company has put its executives front and center.Mr. Zuckerberg typically talks to groups of reporters only after the company releases its quarterly financial reports. But after not responding in public for several days following the Cambridge Analytica disclosure, he has given a series of interviews.And Ms. Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer and the second most recognizable face at the company, is set to be interviewed this week by Fox News, “PBS NewsHour,” NBC’s “Today” show and Bloomberg. Ms. Sandberg will be interviewed remotely from California.Facebook said its new openness was meant to show that it takes the intense criticism over its handling of user data seriously.In Washington, Facebook employees and public relations firms retained by the company have talked to regulators and congressional staff members about new privacy measures, including updates to policies that are intended to make them easier to understand.On Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg provided a preview of what he will tell Congress next week. He said Facebook was “an idealistic and optimistic company.”But he acknowledged that the company had committed serious errors by not ensuring that robust safeguards were in place for users.Asked if he should still be leading the company, he said, “Yes. Life is about learning from the mistakes and learning what you need to go forward.”Terrell McSweeny, a Democratic member of the Federal Trade Commission, said that Mr. Zuckerberg has a big task ahead of him in Washington.“I think it is important for Zuckerberg to clearly explain how Facebook plans to earn back consumer trust,” Ms. McSweeny said. “Consumers need reassurance that their data are not being misused.”An earlier version of this article attributed incorrectly an estimate that 50 million Facebook users’ personal information may have been improperly shared during the 2016 election. The estimate was based on documents and former Cambridge Analytica employees and associates. It did not come from Facebook.Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Puts Profile Breach At 87 Million.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy JACK NICASAPRIL 6, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook on Friday announced a series of moves meant to improve the transparency of political ads and pages on its social media service. The changes came just days before Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, is to testify before Congress.Mr. Zuckerberg said in a post that the company has started requiring advertisers to verify their identity and location before they can run political ads on Facebook. That verification is meant to prevent foreign interference in elections, like the paid posts by so-called Russian trolls ahead of the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Zuckerberg added that he supported a proposed Senate bill, the Honest Ads Act, that would require such disclosures.Facebook will also soon start verifying the identify and location of people who run large Facebook pages, Mr. Zuckerberg said. Officials say Russian agents used pages to pose as Americans on different sides of the political spectrum in an attempt to spread misinformation before the election.Advertisement“These steps by themselves won’t stop all people trying to game the system. But they will make it a lot harder for anyone to do what the Russians did during the 2016 election and use fake accounts and pages to run ads,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in his post.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After playing down problems with the site for months, Facebook has begun to make changes after revelations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had improperly harvested the data of up to 87 million Facebook users.The company recently removed 270 accounts associated with Russia’s Internet Research Agency, the so-called troll factory that spread misinformation amid the election. Sheryl Sandberg, the company’s chief operating officer, gave several lengthy interviews to reporters this week.AdvertisementMr. Zuckerberg himself spent an hour taking questions from reporters this week and he agreed to testify before Congress next week.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicasWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 11:49 P.M. E.D.T.
SYDNEY —  Australia's Privacy Commissioner said on Thursday she had opened a formal investigation into social media giant Facebook Inc after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorisation.The investigation will consider whether Facebook has breached Australia's privacy laws, Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said in a statement.Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
"AdvertisementBy SAPNA MAHESHWARIMARCH 28, 2018
An advertising trade group that gave an award to Cambridge Analytica last year for its “big data” work during the 2016 presidential election is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected and used.The trade group, the Advertising Research Foundation, said it was waiting for more information before formally rescinding the award given to Cambridge Analytica, the British political consulting firm that was recently reported to have improperly harvested the data of 50 million Facebook users. The revelations have brought intense criticism of Facebook, which is facing inquiries from lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic around how it handles user information, and have many people taking a closer look at the role of data in online advertising.""We’ve tended to assume that because you can do something, you should,” Scott McDonald, chief executive of the ad group, said in an interview on Tuesday. He added that advertisers had been more concerned with the accuracy and validity of data they received from technology companies than with asking whether they should be collecting that data and using it to target consumers in the first place.Mr. McDonald addressed the Cambridge Analytica situation and the need for new guidelines during a speech on Wednesday morning at the group’s annual convention in New York.AdvertisementThings were much different last year, when Cambridge Analytica won a gold prize at the foundation’s David Ogilvy Awards, which have been given annually since 1994. The firm was honored for its work for the Trump campaign, in which it identified and advertised to undecided voters.AdvertisementThe selection, made by a jury of ad industry leaders, was “very controversial because of the nature of the campaign,” Mr. McDonald said. But the ad group viewed itself as “Switzerland,” he said, and was simply conducting “a scientific evaluation of the quality of work.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Nobody had any idea the data might have been pilfered,” he said. Mr. McDonald said he planned to potentially poll the jury again and “see if the accusations are sustained” before officially stripping Cambridge Analytica of the award.The existence of the award highlights the enthusiasm with which marketers have approached the reams of consumer data generated by digital devices and their belief that people are happy to share whatever information technology may be collecting from them.The Advertising Research Foundation, which acknowledged that the United States may adopt new regulations on how consumer data is collected, said it planned to work with other industry groups to form new guidelines for collecting and protecting that information. Mr. McDonald said advertising had gone too far in viewing consumers as prey, noting that even the industry’s vocabulary had become militarylike.“We talk about ad campaigns, consumers we target. We talk about subway takeovers, pop-ups,” he said. “These are fairly aggressive, and I don’t think we even think about it — they’re just embedded in the metaphors of advertising.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »"
